.TH "DAHDI_MONITOR" "8" "9 Sep 2011" "" ""

.SH NAME
dahdi_monitor \- checks the Rx/Tx levels of a DAHDI channels
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B dahdi_monitor \fInum\fB [\-v[v]]
.B dahdi_monitor \fInum\fB [\-o] [<\-f|\-F> \fIFILE\fB]
.B dahdi_monitor \fInum\fB [[<\-r|\-R> \fIFILE\fB]] [[<\-t|\-T> \fIFILE\fB]]

.SH DESCRIPTION

dahdi_monitor monitors a Dahdi channel. It can record the output to a
file, play it to the speaker, or visualize the audio levels on the
terminal.

Recorded audio files are by default raw signed linear PCM. If the file
name ends with ".wav", the recorded file will be a WAV file.

The visual display shows the current audio level at both the Rx
(audio Received by Asterisk) and
Tx (audio Transmitted by Asterisk) 

To exit the program, press Ctrl-C.

.SH OPTIONS
The first (mandatory) parameter is the number of the channel
to monitor.

.B \-m
.RS
Multiple channels. Don't multiplex both Rx and Tx in a single channel.
Normally there's a different option that you need that implies it.
.RE

.B \-o
.RS
Plays the output to OSS (/dev/dsp). Requires -m not to be used.
.RE

.B \-v
.RS
Display Visual audio levels. With two v-s, Verbose mode is enabled, that
shows the actual levels as numbers. Note that this requires a terminal
wider than 80 columns to be properly displayed.

Implies -m.
.RE

.B \-f \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the channel (Tx + Rx) to a file.
.RE

.B \-F \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the channel (Tx + Rx) before the echo canceler
to a file.
.RE

.B \-r \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the Rx channel to a file.

Implies -m.
.RE

.B \-R \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the R channel before the echo canceler to a file.

Implies -m.
.RE

.B \-s \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the Tx and Rx of the channel to a file.
.RE

.B \-S \fIFILE
.RS
Records a stereo of both Tx and Rx of the channel before the echo
canceler to a file.
.RE

.B \-t \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the Tx channel to a file.

Implies -m.
.RE

.B \-T \fIFILE
.RS
Record the content of the Tx channel before the echo canceler to a file.

Implies -m.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

Visualize audio levels on DAHDI channel 2:

  dahdi_monitor 2 -v


Record channel 3 to a file:

  dahdi_monitor 3 -f output.raw

This will create a raw PCM file (signed-linear, 8kHz, mono, 16 bits per
sample). Both the Tx and Rx will be multiplexed in a single channel.
It can be converted to a WAV file using e.g.:

  sox -s -c1 -2 -r8000 output.raw output.wav


Record Tx and Rx of channel 5 to separate files. This time directly to
WAV files:

  dahdi_monitor 5 -r output_rx.wav -t output_tx.wav


Record channel 8 to a stereo file (Tx and Rx on its two channels):

  dahdi_monitor 8 -s output.raw

Converting it to a WAV file:

  sox -s -c2 -2 -r8000 output.raw output.wav



.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
dahdi_tool(8), dahdi_cfg(8).

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Santiago Ruano Rinc\['o]n 
<santiago@unicauca.edu.co> for
the Debian system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any 
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
