.TH "DAHDI_CFG" "8" "16 Jun 2008" "" ""

.SH NAME
dahdi_cfg \- configures DAHDI kernel modules from /etc/dahdi/system.conf
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B dahdi_cfg [\-c \fICFG_FILE\fB] [\-S\fINUM\fB [-S\fICHANS\fB]] [\-s] [\-f] [\-t] [\-v [\-v ... ] ]

.B dahdi_cfg \-h

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dahdi_cfg 
configures DAHDI interface cards from a config file.

You generally  need to run it with a valid configurations
in order for DAHDI modules to work properly.

It must be run to configure every DAHDI span. Normally it is run from
the DAHDI init script.

.SH OPTIONS

.B \-c \fICFG_FILE
.RS
Use an alternative configuration file instead of
.I /etc/dahdi/system.conf
.RE

.B \-C \fICHANNELS
.RS
Only apply changes to channels in the specified range. Only
applicable when \-S is in use.
.RE

.B \-s
.RS
Only shutdown spans.
.RE

.B \-S \fISPAN
.RS
Only apply changes to span no. \fISPAN\fR. For a digital span (with
a 'span=' line in the configuration file) this will do. For an analog
span you'll have to explicitly tell dahdi_cfg the range of channels,
using \-C .
.RE

.B \-f
.RS
Always configure every channel, even if it appears not to have changed.
.RE

.B \-t
.RS
Test mode. Don't do anything, just report what you wanted to do.
.RE

.B \-v
.RS
Be more verbose. Add extra v-s for extra verbosity.
.RE

.B \-h
.RS
Display a brief help message.
.RE

.SH FILES

.I /etc/dahdi/system.conf
.RS
The default location for the configuration file.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
dahdi_tool(8), dahdi_monitor(8), asterisk(8).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Santiago Ruano Rinc\['o]n 
<santiago@unicauca.edu.co> for
the Debian system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any 
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
