.TH dahdi_scan 8 "2008-03-18" 
.SH NAME 
dahdi_scan \(em Print Configuration of DAHDI Spans
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B dahdi_scan
.I [spans]

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B dahdi_scan
prints information about DAHDI spans in the system. For analog spans it
also provides a list of channels.

By default it prints information about all the spans in the system.
However if parameters are provided, they will be considered to be a list
of span numbers and information will be printed for them.

Output is printed to the standard output. The format is that of an
Asterisk configuration file (similar to a "ini" configuration file),
where the name of the section is the number of the span. Note that the
specifically for analog spans some keys may appear more than once, and
hence you can not use a parser for an "ini" format and assume you have a
dictionary.

.SH EXAMPLES
Printing information for spans 1, 2 and 4:

  dahdi_scan 1 2 4

And to print all the spans:

  dahdi_scan

Information about a certain analog span:

  [5]
  active=yes
  alarms=OK
  description=Xorcom XPD #00/10: FXS
  name=XBUS\-00/XPD\-10
  manufacturer=Xorcom Inc.
  devicetype=Astribank: Unit 1 Subunit 0: FXS
  location=usb\-0000:00:03.3\-4
  basechan=125
  totchans=8
  irq=0
  type=analog
  port=125,FXS
  port=126,FXS
  port=127,FXS
  port=128,FXS
  port=129,FXS
  port=130,FXS
  port=131,FXS
  port=132,FXS

And an example of a digital span:

  [1]
  active=yes
  alarms=RED
  description=T2XXP (PCI) Card 0 Span 1
  name=TE2/0/1
  manufacturer=Digium
  devicetype=Wildcard TE205P (4th Gen)
  location=Board ID Switch 0
  basechan=1
  totchans=24
  irq=193
  type=digital\-T1
  syncsrc=0
  lbo=0 db (CSU)/0\-133 feet (DSX\-1)
  coding_opts=B8ZS,AMI
  framing_opts=ESF,D4
  coding=B8ZS
  framing=ESF

The "type" field may contain: "analog", "digital\-T1", "digital\-E1",
"digital\-J1" or "digital\-BRI".

.SH FILES
Requires read access to /dev/dahdi/ctl .

.SH SEE ALSO 
dahdi_cfg(8), asterisk(8). 

.SH BUGS
The program still does not do everything described in the man page.

It also assumes that spans don't skip channel numbers, and that their 
channel numbers are "running". This is anyway almost always the case. 
And always the case in a normal boot process.

.SH AUTHOR 

This manual page was written by Tzafrir Cohen <tzafrir.cohen@xorcom.com> 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL. 
