.TH dahdi_diag 8 "2008-01-07" 
.SH NAME 
dahdi_diag \(em Dump DAHDI channel parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B dahdi_diag 
.I channel

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B dahdi_diag
asks the kernel to dump parameters for DAHDI channel no.
.I channel
to the kernel logs. You will be able to see them using, e.g. dmesg(1).


.SH OPTIONS
.I channel
.RS
The number of the DAHDI channel whose parammeters should be dumped.
May be any DAHDI channel (even if it is open).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE

  # /tmp/dahdi_diag 5
  # dmesg | tail \-n 15
  Dump of DAHDI Channel 5 (XPP_BRI_TE/00/01/1,5,2):

  flags: 501 hex, writechunk: c5190948, readchunk: c5190954
  rxgain: ccad2e80, txgain: ccad2e80, gainalloc: 0
  span: c48a900c, sig: 80 hex, sigcap: 80 hex
  inreadbuf: \-1, outreadbuf: 0, inwritebuf: 0, outwritebuf: \-1
  blocksize: 160, numbufs: 4, txbufpolicy: 0, txbufpolicy: 0
  txdisable: 0, rxdisable: 0, iomask: 0
  curzone: c78e7000, tonezone: 0, curtone: 00000000, tonep: 0
  digitmode: 0, txdialbuf: , dialing: 0, aftdialtimer: 0, cadpos. 0
  confna: 0, confn: 0, confmode: 0, confmute: 0
  ec: 00000000, echocancel: 0, deflaw: 0, xlaw: ccab5e80
  echostate: 00, echotimer: 0, echolastupdate: 0
  itimer: 0, otimer: 0, ringdebtimer: 0

.SH SEE ALSO 
dahdi_cfg(8), asterisk(8), dmesg(1). 

.SH AUTHOR 

This manual page was written by Tzafrir Cohen <tzafrir.cohen@xorcom.com> 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL. 
